decidim-ai/README.md, before:

# Decidim::Ai

The Decidim::Ai is a library that aims to provide Artificial Intelligence tools for Decidim. This plugin has been initially developed aiming to analyze the content and provide spam classification using Naive Bayes algorithm.
All AI related functionality provided by Decidim should be included in this same module.

For more documentation on the AI tools API, please refer to [documentation](https://docs.decidim.org/en/develop/develop/ai_tools.html)

## Installation

In order to install use this module, you need at least Decidim 0.30 to be installed.

To install this module, run in your console:

```bash
bundle add decidim-ai
```

After that, add an initializer file as presented in the [documentation](https://docs.decidim.org/en/develop/services/aitools.html#_configuration)

Then, you need to run the below command, so that the reporting user is created.

```ruby
bin/rails decidim:ai:spam:create_reporting_user
```

Then you can use the below command to train the engine with the module dataset:

```ruby
bin/rails decidim:ai:spam:load_module_dataset
```

Add the queue name to `config/sidekiq.yml` file:

```yaml
:queues:
- ["default", 1]
- ["spam_analysis", 1]
# The other yaml entries
```

## Contributing

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).

## License

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).

Commit message:

No longer generate the initializer files (#14832)
* Avoid generating the initializer

* Add new environment variables

* Remove ai_initializer reference

* Running linters

* Fix specs

* Fix env call

* Add env variable for AI

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY to DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY_IN_SECONDS

* Rename DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD to DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD_IN_DAYS

* Add documentation for DECIDIM_PAGE_BLOCKS

* Document DECIDIM_API_DISCLOSE_SYSTEM_VERSION

* Move DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION position

* Add Service pages

* Refactor the initializer references

* Patch the documentation

* Misc

* Simplify details in environment variables file

* Implement changes with regards to initializer references

* refactor the maps

* Update decidim-core/lib/decidim/core.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix the Redme for DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION

* Fix decidim initiatives

* Adding content processors env variable

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

decidim-ai/README.md, after:

# Decidim::Ai

The Decidim::Ai is a library that aims to provide Artificial Intelligence tools for Decidim. This plugin has been initially developed aiming to analyze the content and provide spam classification using Naive Bayes algorithm.
All AI related functionality provided by Decidim should be included in this same module.

For more documentation on the AI tools API, please refer to [documentation](https://docs.decidim.org/en/develop/develop/ai_tools.html)

## Installation

In order to install use this module, you need at least Decidim 0.30 to be installed.

To install this module, run in your console:

```bash
bundle add decidim-ai
```

After that, configure your application using the environment variables as presented in the [documentation](https://docs.decidim.org/en/develop/configure/environment_variables.html)

Then, you need to run the below command, so that the reporting user is created.

```ruby
bin/rails decidim:ai:spam:create_reporting_user
```

Then you can use the below command to train the engine with the module dataset:

```ruby
bin/rails decidim:ai:spam:load_module_dataset
```

Add the queue name to `config/sidekiq.yml` file:

```yaml
:queues:
- ["default", 1]
- ["spam_analysis", 1]
# The other yaml entries
```

## Contributing

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).

## License

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).
