docs/modules/services/pages/etherpad.adoc, before:

= Etherpad

On some cases, users need to have near real time collaborative writing, for instance for having the minutes on a physical meeting.

To ease online/offline participation, Decidim can be integrated with Etherpad so meetings can have their own pads.

== Integration

In order to use it you need to have your own Etherpad deployment, you can do it
with the Docker compose using the provided `docker-compose-etherpad.yml`.

You should edit that file to configure the environment variables and then run:

[source,sh]
----
docker swarm init # just one time

docker stack deploy --compose-file docker-compose-etherpad.yml decidim-etherpad
----

After deploying Etherpad, you should get back to Decidim's server and set the Etherpad host and API Key at
`config/initializers/decidim.rb`

An example snippet in `config/initializers/decidim.rb` may be:

[source,ruby]
----
config.etherpad = {
  server: ENV["ETHERPAD_SERVER"],
  api_key: ENV["ETHERPAD_API_KEY"],
  api_version: Decidim::Env.new("ETHERPAD_API_VERSION", "1.2.1")
}
----

== How is Etherpad Lite integrated in Meetings?

To better understand this feature, the final idea is to have the three moments of a meeting covered on Decidim itself by default:

* *Before the meeting*, you let know that the meeting is going to happen, where, when and what is going to be discussed
* *During the meeting*, notes can be taken on a collaborative way
* *After the meeting*, you upload the notes, minutes, metadata and/or pictures to have a record on what was discussed

Pad creation can be enabled by administrators in each `Meetings` component. When enabled, the public view of a Meeting renders an iframe which encapsulates the integrated Pad. This Pad is automatically created before rendering, so there is nothing the user or the administrators has to do to see the Pad.

The pad iframe is only accessible for 24 hours before and 72 hours after the meeting. After the meeting only the read only URL for this pad is shown.

Commit message:

No longer generate the initializer files (#14832)
* Avoid generating the initializer

* Add new environment variables

* Remove ai_initializer reference

* Running linters

* Fix specs

* Fix env call

* Add env variable for AI

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY to DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY_IN_SECONDS

* Rename DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD to DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD_IN_DAYS

* Add documentation for DECIDIM_PAGE_BLOCKS

* Document DECIDIM_API_DISCLOSE_SYSTEM_VERSION

* Move DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION position

* Add Service pages

* Refactor the initializer references

* Patch the documentation

* Misc

* Simplify details in environment variables file

* Implement changes with regards to initializer references

* refactor the maps

* Update decidim-core/lib/decidim/core.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix the Redme for DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION

* Fix decidim initiatives

* Adding content processors env variable

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/services/pages/etherpad.adoc, after:

= Etherpad

On some cases, users need to have near real time collaborative writing, for instance for having the minutes on a physical meeting.

To ease online/offline participation, Decidim can be integrated with Etherpad so meetings can have their own pads.

== Integration

In order to use it you need to have your own Etherpad deployment, you can do it
with the Docker compose using the provided `docker-compose-etherpad.yml`.

You should edit that file to configure the environment variables and then run:

[source,sh]
----
docker swarm init # just one time

docker stack deploy --compose-file docker-compose-etherpad.yml decidim-etherpad
----

After deploying Etherpad, you should get back to Decidim's server and set the Etherpad host and API Key using the xref:configure:environment_variables.adoc[environment variables].

[source,console]
----
export ETHERPAD_SERVER=...
export ETHERPAD_API_KEY=....
export ETHERPAD_API_VERSION=...
----

== How is Etherpad Lite integrated in Meetings?

To better understand this feature, the final idea is to have the three moments of a meeting covered on Decidim itself by default:

* *Before the meeting*, you let know that the meeting is going to happen, where, when and what is going to be discussed
* *During the meeting*, notes can be taken on a collaborative way
* *After the meeting*, you upload the notes, minutes, metadata and/or pictures to have a record on what was discussed

Pad creation can be enabled by administrators in each `Meetings` component. When enabled, the public view of a Meeting renders an iframe which encapsulates the integrated Pad. This Pad is automatically created before rendering, so there is nothing the user or the administrators has to do to see the Pad.

The pad iframe is only accessible for 24 hours before and 72 hours after the meeting. After the meeting only the read only URL for this pad is shown.
