docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc, before:

= SMS

If you want to verify your users by sending a verification code via SMS you need to provide a SMS gateway service class through the xref:configure:initializer.adoc[initializer].

This service can also be used by some spaces, and external modules could use it too.

An example class would be something like:

[source,ruby]
....
class MySMSGatewayService
  attr_reader :mobile_phone_number, :code, :context
  def initialize(mobile_phone_number, code, context = {})
    @mobile_phone_number = mobile_phone_number
    @code = code
    @context = context
  end
  def deliver_code
    # Actual code to deliver the code
    true
  end
end
....

The arguments provided for the initialize method are:

- `mobile_phone_number` - The full mobile phone number to send the message to, containing the country code.
- `code` - The code or the message to be sent to the given mobile phone number.
- `context` - An extra context attribute which can be used to pass e.g. the correct organization for the gateway to utilize.

Then you will need to configure it in the Decidim initializer:

[source,ruby]
....
  config.sms_gateway_service = "MySMSGatewayService"
....

You can find an example on how this is set up at https://github.com/AjuntamentdeBarcelona/decidim-barcelona/blob/672f5a8938d884940899b4304f0a17e25d42d2a0/app/services/sms_gateway.rb[DecidimBarcelona's app/services/sms_gateway.rb]. Your final implementation will depend on how your SMS provider works.

Another example which also utilizes the `context` argument can be found from the Twilio SMS integration available at:
https://github.com/Pipeline-to-Power/decidim-module-ptp/blob/aa82286d91d404e83ea16a55d281a1b049bbaca2/decidim-sms-twilio/lib/decidim/sms/twilio/gateway.rb

Commit message:

No longer generate the initializer files (#14832)
* Avoid generating the initializer

* Add new environment variables

* Remove ai_initializer reference

* Running linters

* Fix specs

* Fix env call

* Add env variable for AI

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY to DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY_IN_SECONDS

* Rename DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD to DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD_IN_DAYS

* Add documentation for DECIDIM_PAGE_BLOCKS

* Document DECIDIM_API_DISCLOSE_SYSTEM_VERSION

* Move DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION position

* Add Service pages

* Refactor the initializer references

* Patch the documentation

* Misc

* Simplify details in environment variables file

* Implement changes with regards to initializer references

* refactor the maps

* Update decidim-core/lib/decidim/core.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix the Redme for DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION

* Fix decidim initiatives

* Adding content processors env variable

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc, after:

= SMS gateway configuration

If you want to verify your users by sending a verification code via
SMS (mobile/cell phones text messages) you need to provide a SMS gateway service class.

An example class would be something like:

[source,ruby]
....
class MySMSGatewayService
  attr_reader :mobile_phone_number, :code, :context
  def initialize(mobile_phone_number, code, context = {})
    @mobile_phone_number = mobile_phone_number
    @code = code
    @context = context
  end
  def deliver_code
    # Actual code to deliver the code
    true
  end
end
....

The arguments provided for the initialize method are:

- `mobile_phone_number` - The full mobile phone number to send the message to, containing the country code.
- `code` - The code or the message to be sent to the given mobile phone number.
- `context` - An extra context attribute which can be used to pass e.g. the correct organization for the gateway to utilize.

Then you will need to configure it with the help of Environment Variables:

[source,bash]
....
export DECIDIM_SMS_GATEWAY_SERVICE="MySMSGatewayService"
....

You can find an example on how this is set up at https://github.com/AjuntamentdeBarcelona/decidim-barcelona/blob/672f5a8938d884940899b4304f0a17e25d42d2a0/app/services/sms_gateway.rb[DecidimBarcelona's app/services/sms_gateway.rb]. Your final implementation will depend on how your SMS provider works.

Another example which also utilizes the `context` argument can be found from the Twilio SMS integration available at:
https://github.com/Pipeline-to-Power/decidim-module-ptp/blob/aa82286d91d404e83ea16a55d281a1b049bbaca2/decidim-sms-twilio/lib/decidim/sms/twilio/gateway.rb
