docs/modules/configure/pages/system.adoc, before:

= System

Every Decidim is multi-tenant by default. That means that you can have multiple organizations inside a same installation.
This is being used for instance for the Barcelona and Girona Provincial Governments, for offering Decidim installations
to many small cities, or by the City of Barcelona, for giving service to lots of organizations (associations,
federations, cooperatives, etc).

Even if you only have one organization you need to create it through the System Panel.
It is available after you have installed Decidim, at `/system`. For instance if your domain is `example.org`,
then it should be available at `http://example.org/system`.

After you have freshly installed Decidim, you are redirected to the System panel log-in page:

image::system-log_in.png[system panel log in]

== 1. Create a system admin account

For logging in to this dashboard, you need to create a system admin account from your terminal:

[source, console]
....
bin/rails decidim_system:create_admin
....

You will be asked for an email and a password.
For security, the password will not get displayed back at you and you need to confirm it.

== 2. Access the Dashboard

With the email and password that you have added in the past step, you are able to log in.
After you have logged in, you should see an empty dashboard:

image::system-dashboard.png[system empty dashboard]

== 3. Create a new organization

Inside of the system panel, you need to create your Organization through the form:

TIP: Please mind that some of these fields cannot change through the System Form, as changing them could
potentially leave your database in a broken state. You can change it through the console, but you will be on your own.

=== General settings

.System - New Organization form general settings
[cols="20h,10h,~"]
|===
|Field |Type |Description

|Name
|Required
|Name of your organization. For instance, "Decidim Barcelona".

|Reference prefix
|Required
|The reference prefix is used to uniquely identify resources across all organizations. For instance, "BCN". You can change how
it is created through xref:configure:initializer.adoc[Decidim's initializer] (see **Custom resource reference**).

|Host
|Required
|Fully qualified domain name. For instance, "example.org" or "decidim.barcelona".

|Secondary hosts
|Optional
|Others domains or subdomains that point to this same installation. Normally this should not be used.
Enter each one of them in a new line. For instance, "example.com".

|Organization admin name
|Required
|Name of the admin account. For instance, "Admin"

|Organization admin email
|Required
|Email for the admin account. For instance, "admin@example.org"

|Organization locales
|Required
|You need to configure at least one language. Decidim is multilingual, meaning that you can have most of the admin
contents with any number of languages. For seeing other languages you need to configure first the
xref:configure:initializer.adoc[Decidim's initializer].

|Force authentication
|Optional
|Check if you want to **Force users to authenticate before access organization**.
That means visitor they do not see any published content and they only have access to the log-in form.

|Users registration mode
|Optional
|Control how you want the login / participant register or signup to work. See below.

|Available authorizations
|Optional
|How you want to authorize and verify that your participants are who they say they are.
It depends a lot on your Organization, country, etc. See xref:customize:authorizations.adoc[Authorizations customization].

|===

=== Advanced settings

.System - New Organization form advanced settings
[cols="20h,10h,~"]
|===
|Field |Type |Description

|SMTP settings
|Optional
|Allows you to configure different SMTP servers for every organization in this installation.
See xref:services:smtp.adoc[SMTP configuration].

|Omniauth settings
|Optional
|Allows you to configure through external OAUTH providers for every Organization in this installation.
See xref:services:social_providers.adoc[Social providers configuration].

|File upload settings
|Optional
|Allows you to configure the formats accepted on your instance, as well as default file sizes for file uploads

|Content security policy
|Optional
|Allows you to configure organization based rules, but also to configure system wide policies in case your decidim instance is running
in multi tenant mode. To learn more, check this https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP[CSP header documentation].

|===

=== Users registration mode

==== Allow participants to register and login

Most of the installations use this setting. Means that everyone can register a participant account and login, without restrictions, only with an email account confirmation.
You can disable that confirmation also if you want to through xref:configure:initializer.adoc[Decidim's initializer], although we do not recommend doing that,
as it is a measure for stopping spam accounts.

==== Do not allow participants to register, but allow existing participants to login

This is for when you make a manual import of participants' accounts.

==== Access only can be done with external accounts

In the case where you have an external provider configured (like the `Omniauth settings`) and you want to have accounts from only this provider.

== Edit an organization

Finally, you can also Edit an organization, although some fields cannot be changed as some contents in the database depends on them.

For accessing your newly created Organization, you can do it by going to the domain or subdomain that you have configured in `Host`.

Commit message:

No longer generate the initializer files (#14832)
* Avoid generating the initializer

* Add new environment variables

* Remove ai_initializer reference

* Running linters

* Fix specs

* Fix env call

* Add env variable for AI

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY to DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY_IN_SECONDS

* Rename DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD to DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD_IN_DAYS

* Add documentation for DECIDIM_PAGE_BLOCKS

* Document DECIDIM_API_DISCLOSE_SYSTEM_VERSION

* Move DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION position

* Add Service pages

* Refactor the initializer references

* Patch the documentation

* Misc

* Simplify details in environment variables file

* Implement changes with regards to initializer references

* refactor the maps

* Update decidim-core/lib/decidim/core.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix the Redme for DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION

* Fix decidim initiatives

* Adding content processors env variable

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/configure/pages/system.adoc, after:

= System

Every Decidim is multi-tenant by default. That means that you can have multiple organizations inside a same installation.
This is being used for instance for the Barcelona and Girona Provincial Governments, for offering Decidim installations
to many small cities, or by the City of Barcelona, for giving service to lots of organizations (associations,
federations, cooperatives, etc).

Even if you only have one organization you need to create it through the System Panel.
It is available after you have installed Decidim, at `/system`. For instance if your domain is `example.org`,
then it should be available at `http://example.org/system`.

After you have freshly installed Decidim, you are redirected to the System panel log-in page:

image::system-log_in.png[system panel log in]

== 1. Create a system admin account

For logging in to this dashboard, you need to create a system admin account from your terminal:

[source, console]
....
bin/rails decidim_system:create_admin
....

You will be asked for an email and a password.
For security, the password will not get displayed back at you and you need to confirm it.

== 2. Access the Dashboard

With the email and password that you have added in the past step, you are able to log in.
After you have logged in, you should see an empty dashboard:

image::system-dashboard.png[system empty dashboard]

== 3. Create a new organization

Inside of the system panel, you need to create your Organization through the form:

TIP: Please mind that some of these fields cannot change through the System Form, as changing them could
potentially leave your database in a broken state. You can change it through the console, but you will be on your own.

=== General settings

.System - New Organization form general settings
[cols="20h,10h,~"]
|===
|Field |Type |Description

|Name
|Required
|Name of your organization. For instance, "Decidim Barcelona".

|Reference prefix
|Required
|The reference prefix is used to uniquely identify resources across all organizations. For instance, "BCN". You can change how
it is created through xref:configure:initializer.adoc[Decidim's initializer] (see **Custom resource reference**).

|Host
|Required
|Fully qualified domain name. For instance, "example.org" or "decidim.barcelona".

|Secondary hosts
|Optional
|Others domains or subdomains that point to this same installation. Normally this should not be used.
Enter each one of them in a new line. For instance, "example.com".

|Organization admin name
|Required
|Name of the admin account. For instance, "Admin"

|Organization admin email
|Required
|Email for the admin account. For instance, "admin@example.org"

|Organization locales
|Required
|You need to configure at least one language. Decidim is multilingual, meaning that you can have most of the admin
contents with any number of languages. For seeing other languages you need to configure first the
xref:configure:environment_variables.adoc[Decidim's Environment Variables].

|Force authentication
|Optional
|Check if you want to **Force users to authenticate before access organization**.
That means visitor they do not see any published content and they only have access to the log-in form.

|Users registration mode
|Optional
|Control how you want the login / participant register or signup to work. See below.

|Available authorizations
|Optional
|How you want to authorize and verify that your participants are who they say they are.
It depends a lot on your Organization, country, etc. See xref:customize:authorizations.adoc[Authorizations customization].

|===

=== Advanced settings

.System - New Organization form advanced settings
[cols="20h,10h,~"]
|===
|Field |Type |Description

|SMTP settings
|Optional
|Allows you to configure different SMTP servers for every organization in this installation.
See xref:services:smtp.adoc[SMTP configuration].

|Omniauth settings
|Optional
|Allows you to configure through external OAUTH providers for every Organization in this installation.
See xref:services:social_providers.adoc[Social providers configuration].

|File upload settings
|Optional
|Allows you to configure the formats accepted on your instance, as well as default file sizes for file uploads

|Content security policy
|Optional
|Allows you to configure organization based rules, but also to configure system wide policies in case your decidim instance is running
in multi tenant mode. To learn more, check this https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP[CSP header documentation].

|===

=== Users registration mode

==== Allow participants to register and login

Most of the installations use this setting. Means that everyone can register a participant account and login, without restrictions, only with an email account confirmation.
You can disable that confirmation also if you want to through xref:configure:environment_variables.adoc.adoc[Decidim's environment variables], although we do not recommend doing that,
as it is a measure for stopping spam accounts. For additional details, read about `DECIDIM_UNCONFIRMED_ACCESS_FOR` environment variable.

==== Do not allow participants to register, but allow existing participants to login

This is for when you make a manual import of participants' accounts.

==== Access only can be done with external accounts

In the case where you have an external provider configured (like the `Omniauth settings`) and you want to have accounts from only this provider.

== Edit an organization

Finally, you can also Edit an organization, although some fields cannot be changed as some contents in the database depends on them.

For accessing your newly created Organization, you can do it by going to the domain or subdomain that you have configured in `Host`.
