decidim-initiatives/README.md, before:

# Decidim::Initiatives

Initiatives is the place on Decidim's where participants can promote an initiative. Unlike
participatory processes that must be created by an administrator, initiatives can be
created by any user of the platform.

An initiative will contain attachments and comments from other users as well.

Prior to be published an initiative must be technically validated. All the validation
process and communication between the platform administrators and the sponsorship
committee is managed via an administration UI.

## Usage

This plugin provides:

* A CRUD engine to manage initiatives.

* Public views for initiatives via a high level section in the main menu.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'decidim-initiatives'
```

And then execute:

```bash
bundle
bundle exec rails decidim_initiatives:install:migrations
bundle exec rails db:migrate
```

## Database

The database requires the extension pg_trgm enabled. Contact your DBA to enable it.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION pg_trgm;
```

## Deactivating authorization requirement and other module settings

Some of the settings of the module need to be set in the code of your app, for example in the file `config/initializers/decidim.rb`.

This is the case if you want to enable the creation of initiatives even when no authorization method is set.

Just use the following line:

```ruby
Decidim::Initiatives.do_not_require_authorization = true
```

All the settings and their default values which can be overridden can be found in the file [`lib/decidim/initiatives.rb`](https://github.com/decidim/decidim/blob/develop/decidim-initiatives/lib/decidim/initiatives.rb).

For example, you can also change the minimum number of required committee members to 1 (default is 2) by adding this line:

```ruby
Decidim::Initiatives.minimum_committee_members = 1
```

Or change the number of days given to gather signatures to 365 (default is 120) with:

```ruby
Decidim::Initiatives.default_signature_time_period_length = 365
```

### Initiatives signatures

Different signature workflows can be registered in the code of your app and used in the signature workflow settings of signatures types. A signature workflow defines some options of the signature steps and the form objects and commands responsible for validating and managing the data provided by the users.

To define a signature workflow create an initializer in your application and register it. For example, in `config/initializers/decidim_initiatives.rb`:

```ruby
Decidim::Initiatives::Signatures.register_workflow(:dummy_signature_handler) do |workflow|
  workflow.form = "DummySignatureHandler"
  workflow.authorization_handler_form = "DummyAuthorizationHandler"
  workflow.action_authorizer = "DummySignatureHandler::DummySignatureActionAuthorizer"
  workflow.promote_authorization_validation_errors = true
  workflow.sms_verification = true
  workflow.sms_mobile_phone_validator = "DummySmsMobilePhoneValidator"
end

Decidim::Initiatives::Signatures.register_workflow(:ephemeral_dummy_signature_handler) do |workflow|
  workflow.form = "DummySignatureHandler"
  workflow.ephemeral = true
  workflow.authorization_handler_form = "DummyAuthorizationHandler"
  workflow.action_authorizer = "DummySignatureHandler::DummySignatureActionAuthorizer"
  workflow.promote_authorization_validation_errors = true
  workflow.sms_verification = false
end

Decidim::Initiatives::Signatures.register_workflow(:legacy_signature_handler) do |workflow|
  workflow.form = "Decidim::Initiatives::LegacySignatureHandler"
  workflow.authorization_handler_form = "DummyAuthorizationHandler"
  workflow.save_authorizations = false
  workflow.sms_verification = true
end
```

All the attributes of a workflow are optional except the registered name with which the workflow is registered. A flow without attributes uses default values that generate a direct signature process without steps.

Signature workflows can be defined as ephemeral, in which case users can sign initiatives without prior registration. For a workflow of this type to work correctly, an authorization handler form must be defined in `authorization_handler_form` and authorizations saving must not be disabled using the `save_authorizations` setting, in order to ensure that user verifications are saved based on the personal data they provide.

For more information about the definition of a signature workflow read the documentation of `Decidim::Initiatives::SignatureWorkflowManifest` and `Decidim::Initiatives::SignatureHandler`

## Rake tasks

This engine comes with three rake tasks that should be executed on daily basis. The best
way to execute these tasks is using cron jobs. You can manage this cron jobs in your
Rails application using the [Whenever GEM](https://github.com/javan/whenever) or even
creating them by hand.

### decidim_initiatives:check_validating

This task move all initiatives in validation phase without changes for the amount of
time defined in __Decidim::Initiatives::max_time_in_validating_state__. These initiatives
will be moved to __discarded__ state.

### decidim_initiatives:check_published

This task retrieves all published initiatives whose support method is online and the support
period has expired. Initiatives that have reached the minimum supports required will pass
to state __accepted__. The initiatives without enough supports will pass to __rejected__ state.

Initiatives with offline support method enabled (pure offline or mixed) will get its status updated
after the presential supports have been registered into the system.

### decidim_initiatives:notify_progress

This task sends notification mails when initiatives reaches the support percentages defined in
__Decidim::Initiatives.first_notification_percentage__ and __Decidim::Initiatives.second_notification_percentage__.

Author, members of the promoter committee and followers will receive it.

## Exporting online signatures

When the signature method is set to any or face to face it may be necessary to implement
a mechanism to validate that there are no duplicated signatures. To do so the engine provides
a functionality that allows exporting the online signatures to validate them against physical
signatures.

The signatures are exported as a hash string in order to preserve the identity of the signer together with their privacy.
Each hash is composed with the following criteria:

* Algorithm used: SHA1
* Format of the string hashed: "#{unique_id}#{title}#{description}"

There are some considerations that you must keep in mind:

* Title and description will be hashed using the same format included in the database, this is including html tags.
* Title and description will be hashed using the same locale used by the initiative author. In case there is more
  than one locale available be sure that you change your locale settings to be inline with
  the locale used to generate the hashes outside Decidim.

## Seeding example data

In order to populate the database with example data proceed as usual in rails:

```bash
bundle exec rails db:seed
```

## Additional considerations

### Cookies

This engine makes use of cookies to store large form data. You should change the
default session store or you might experience problems.

Check the [Rails configuration guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html#rails-general-configuration)
in order to get instructions about changing the default session store.

## Contributing

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).

## License

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).

Commit message:

No longer generate the initializer files (#14832)
* Avoid generating the initializer

* Add new environment variables

* Remove ai_initializer reference

* Running linters

* Fix specs

* Fix env call

* Add env variable for AI

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY to DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY_IN_SECONDS

* Rename DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD to DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD_IN_DAYS

* Add documentation for DECIDIM_PAGE_BLOCKS

* Document DECIDIM_API_DISCLOSE_SYSTEM_VERSION

* Move DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION position

* Add Service pages

* Refactor the initializer references

* Patch the documentation

* Misc

* Simplify details in environment variables file

* Implement changes with regards to initializer references

* refactor the maps

* Update decidim-core/lib/decidim/core.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix the Redme for DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION

* Fix decidim initiatives

* Adding content processors env variable

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

decidim-initiatives/README.md, after:

# Decidim::Initiatives

Initiatives is the place on Decidim's where participants can promote an initiative. Unlike
participatory processes that must be created by an administrator, initiatives can be
created by any user of the platform.

An initiative will contain attachments and comments from other users as well.

Prior to be published an initiative must be technically validated. All the validation
process and communication between the platform administrators and the sponsorship
committee is managed via an administration UI.

## Usage

This plugin provides:

* A CRUD engine to manage initiatives.

* Public views for initiatives via a high level section in the main menu.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'decidim-initiatives'
```

And then execute:

```bash
bundle
bundle exec rails decidim_initiatives:install:migrations
bundle exec rails db:migrate
```

## Database

The database requires the extension pg_trgm enabled. Contact your DBA to enable it.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION pg_trgm;
```

## Deactivating authorization requirement and other module settings

Some of the settings of the module need to be set in the code of your app using the [environment variables](https://docs.decidim.org/en/develop/configure/environment_variables)

This is the case if you want to enable the creation of initiatives even when no authorization method is set.

Just set the following environment variable:

```bash
export INITIATIVES_DO_NOT_REQUIRE_AUTHORIZATION=true
```

For example, you can also change the minimum number of required committee members to 1 (default is 2) by exporting the following variable:

```bash
export INITIATIVES_MINIMUM_COMMITTEE_MEMBERS=1
```

Or change the number of days given to gather signatures to 365 (default is 120) with:

```ruby
export INITIATIVES_DEFAULT_SIGNATURE_TIME_PERIOD_LENGTH=365
```

### Initiatives signatures

Different signature workflows can be registered in the code of your app and used in the signature workflow settings of signatures types. A signature workflow defines some options of the signature steps and the form objects and commands responsible for validating and managing the data provided by the users.

To define a signature workflow create an initializer in your application and register it. For example, in `config/initializers/decidim_initiatives.rb`:

```ruby
Decidim::Initiatives::Signatures.register_workflow(:dummy_signature_handler) do |workflow|
  workflow.form = "DummySignatureHandler"
  workflow.authorization_handler_form = "DummyAuthorizationHandler"
  workflow.action_authorizer = "DummySignatureHandler::DummySignatureActionAuthorizer"
  workflow.promote_authorization_validation_errors = true
  workflow.sms_verification = true
  workflow.sms_mobile_phone_validator = "DummySmsMobilePhoneValidator"
end

Decidim::Initiatives::Signatures.register_workflow(:ephemeral_dummy_signature_handler) do |workflow|
  workflow.form = "DummySignatureHandler"
  workflow.ephemeral = true
  workflow.authorization_handler_form = "DummyAuthorizationHandler"
  workflow.action_authorizer = "DummySignatureHandler::DummySignatureActionAuthorizer"
  workflow.promote_authorization_validation_errors = true
  workflow.sms_verification = false
end

Decidim::Initiatives::Signatures.register_workflow(:legacy_signature_handler) do |workflow|
  workflow.form = "Decidim::Initiatives::LegacySignatureHandler"
  workflow.authorization_handler_form = "DummyAuthorizationHandler"
  workflow.save_authorizations = false
  workflow.sms_verification = true
end
```

All the attributes of a workflow are optional except the registered name with which the workflow is registered. A flow without attributes uses default values that generate a direct signature process without steps.

Signature workflows can be defined as ephemeral, in which case users can sign initiatives without prior registration. For a workflow of this type to work correctly, an authorization handler form must be defined in `authorization_handler_form` and authorizations saving must not be disabled using the `save_authorizations` setting, in order to ensure that user verifications are saved based on the personal data they provide.

For more information about the definition of a signature workflow read the documentation of `Decidim::Initiatives::SignatureWorkflowManifest` and `Decidim::Initiatives::SignatureHandler`

## Rake tasks

This engine comes with three rake tasks that should be executed on daily basis. The best
way to execute these tasks is using cron jobs. You can manage this cron jobs in your
Rails application using the [Whenever GEM](https://github.com/javan/whenever) or even
creating them by hand.

### decidim_initiatives:check_validating

This task move all initiatives in validation phase without changes for the amount of
time defined in __Decidim::Initiatives::max_time_in_validating_state__. These initiatives
will be moved to __discarded__ state.

### decidim_initiatives:check_published

This task retrieves all published initiatives whose support method is online and the support
period has expired. Initiatives that have reached the minimum supports required will pass
to state __accepted__. The initiatives without enough supports will pass to __rejected__ state.

Initiatives with offline support method enabled (pure offline or mixed) will get its status updated
after the presential supports have been registered into the system.

### decidim_initiatives:notify_progress

This task sends notification mails when initiatives reaches the support percentages defined in
__Decidim::Initiatives.first_notification_percentage__ and __Decidim::Initiatives.second_notification_percentage__.

Author, members of the promoter committee and followers will receive it.

## Exporting online signatures

When the signature method is set to any or face to face it may be necessary to implement
a mechanism to validate that there are no duplicated signatures. To do so the engine provides
a functionality that allows exporting the online signatures to validate them against physical
signatures.

The signatures are exported as a hash string in order to preserve the identity of the signer together with their privacy.
Each hash is composed with the following criteria:

* Algorithm used: SHA1
* Format of the string hashed: "#{unique_id}#{title}#{description}"

There are some considerations that you must keep in mind:

* Title and description will be hashed using the same format included in the database, this is including html tags.
* Title and description will be hashed using the same locale used by the initiative author. In case there is more
  than one locale available be sure that you change your locale settings to be inline with
  the locale used to generate the hashes outside Decidim.

## Seeding example data

In order to populate the database with example data proceed as usual in rails:

```bash
bundle exec rails db:seed
```

## Additional considerations

### Cookies

This engine makes use of cookies to store large form data. You should change the
default session store or you might experience problems.

Check the [Rails configuration guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html#rails-general-configuration)
in order to get instructions about changing the default session store.

## Contributing

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).

## License

See [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim).
