docs/modules/develop/pages/guide_migrate_webpacker_app.adoc, before:

= Migrate to Webpacker an instance app

In order to migrate an existing Decidim app to Webpacker, there are a few changes your need to run in your code.

NOTE: this recipe might not work for all the cases, it tries to cover the generic scenarios. If you find yourself with a complex scenario and want to improve this guide feel free to open a PR to complete the guide.

== About Webpacker

It's recommended to understand how Webpacker works. More information:

* https://github.com/rails/webpacker#usage[Webpacker README]
* https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/webpacker.html[Rails Webpacker guide]

== Requirements

Before starting the migration, please check you have the following dependencies installed:

- Node.js version 16.9.x (this version is mandatory)
- Npm version 7.21.x (it works with other versions, but this is the recommended)
- Decidim updated to at least v0.25.0.rc4

== Guide

=== Add Webpacker to the application

Follow these steps. If you want more information you can find it at the https://github.com/rails/webpacker#installation[Webpacker installation guide].

* Install it

[source,console]
----
bundle exec rails webpacker:install
----

* Install Decidim webpacker custom code

[source,console]
----
bundle exec rails decidim:webpacker:install
----

This task do a few steps to allow the Rails instance to have a webpacker instance sharing the code between itself and Decidim gem.

This task is automatically performed every time decidim is updated, to get the latest Webpack configuration. This happens when you run the `decidim:upgrade` task.

=== Copy Decidim custom CSS and Javascript

`webpacker:install` task should have created to you the following dirs structure:

[source,console]
----
app/packs:
  ├── entrypoints
  └── src
  └── stylesheets
  └── images
----

If it's not the case you must create it. Then, copy Decidim customizable assets

* Copy the file https://github.com/decidim/decidim/blob/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.js[decidim_application.js] to `app/packs/src/decidim/decidim_application.js`
* Copy the file https://github.com/decidim/decidim/blob/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.scss[decidim_application.scss] to `app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/decidim_application.scss`
* Copy the file https://github.com/decidim/decidim/blob/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/_decidim-settings.scss[_decidim-settings.scss] to `app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/_decidim-settings.scss`

These files are hooked into Decidim packs (specifically into decidim-core pack) and will be automatically included inside that pack when compiled.

You can download these files directly with these commands:

[source,console]
----
mkdir -p app/packs/src/decidim app/packs/stylesheets/decidim app/packs/images
touch app/packs/src/decidim/.keep app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/.keep app/packs/images/.keep
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/decidim/decidim/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.js -O app/packs/src/decidim/decidim_application.js
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/decidim/decidim/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.scss -O app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/decidim_application.scss
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/decidim/decidim/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/_decidim-settings.scss -O app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/_decidim-settings.scss
----

=== Migrate images

Copy the existing images from `app/assets/images` to `app/packs/images`. Images will be available at `/media/images/image.png`

[source,console]
----
cp -rp app/assets/images/* app/packs/images/
----

For instance, add the image "app/packs/images/test.png" in a view using the helper:

[source,erb]
----
<%= image_pack_tag "media/images/test.png" =>
----

Note that, by default, all images are flattened in a single directory (any subdirectory structure is lost when requiring an image using the `image_pack_tag`).
So, if you have a file in a subdirectory such as `app/packs/images/subfolder/test.png`, you still need to call for the image using `image_pack_tag "media/images/test.png"`

=== Migrate stylesheets

Existing stylesheets should be moved from `app/assets/stylesheets` to `app/packs/stylesheets` and imported with `@import` into `decidim_application.scss`. Take into account that you might need to adjust a bit the paths of the `@import` to adjust them to the new locations.

If that CSS file is replacing a Decidim file, there's no need to add it to `decidim_application.scss`.

If any of the CSS is re-defining CSS vars add them to `_decidim-settings.scss`.

=== Migrate javascripts

Existing javascripts should be moved from `app/assets/javascsripts` to `app/packs/src` and imported with `import` into `decidim_application.js`. Take into account that you might need to adjust a bit the paths of the `import` to adjust them to the new locations.

If that JS file is replacing a Decidim file, there's no need to add it to `decidim_application.js`

=== Update Rails helpers

`javascript_include_tag` and `stylesheet_link_tag` have been replaced by `javascript_pack_tag` and `stylesheet_pack_tag`. This only needs to be done if you're modifying the `application.html` file or partial in your layout.

For images, if they are in `app/packs/images` you need to replace `ìmage_tag` with `image_pack_tag`.

=== Migrate vendorized files and gems

Sometimes assets are included in `vendor/assets/` folder or imported from gems. For each specific one you should check:

1. if the asset is a javascript that is available as npm package the recommendation is to add it to package.json with `npm install`. If it's not available you might want to copy it to `app/packs/src` and import it.
2. if the asset is a stylesheet it should be copied to `app/packs/stylesheets` and imported with `@import...` from `_decidim-settings.scss`. Alternatively you can use the optional asset includes as described below to include these in the Decidim main SCSS files.

=== Optional asset includes

Decidim Webpacker provides a new configuration convention that allows you to add extra configurations for webpacker using a configuration file named `config/assets.rb`. Within this file, you have the following API methods available:

[source,ruby]
----
# frozen_string_literal: true
# This file is located at `config/assets.rb` of your module.

# Define the base path of your module. Please note that `Rails.root` may not be
# used because we are not inside the Rails environment when this file is loaded.
base_path = File.expand_path("..", __dir__)

# If you want to import some extra SCSS files in the Decidim main SCSS file
# without adding any extra stylesheet inclusion tags, you can use the following
# method to register the stylesheet import for the main application. This would
# include an SCSS file at `app/packs/stylesheets/your_app_extensions.scss` into
# the Decidim's main SCSS file.
Decidim::Webpacker.register_stylesheet_import("stylesheets/your_app_extensions")

# If you want to do the same but include the SCSS file for the admin panel's
# main SCSS file, you can use the following method.
Decidim::Webpacker.register_stylesheet_import("stylesheets/your_app_admin_extensions", group: :admin)
----

=== Remove Sprockets references

The completely remove Sprockets references from your application:

* Review your Gemfile and remove any reference to `sprockets` and `sassc-rails`
* Remove `config/initializers/assets.rb`
* Remove `app/assets` folder
* In `config/application.rb` replace:

[source,ruby]
----
require 'rails/all'
----

with:

[source,ruby]
----
require "decidim/rails"
# Add the frameworks used by your app that are not loaded by Decidim.
# require "action_cable/engine"
# require "action_mailbox/engine"
# require "action_text/engine"
----

* In `config/environments/*.rb` remove any line containing `config.assets.*` (i.e `config.assets.debug = true`)

=== Help Decidim to know the application's assets folder

To prevent Zeitwerk issues trying to autoload the non-ruby application folders, modify the `config/initializers/decidim.rb` file to include the following:

[source,ruby]
---
# Inform Decidim about the assets folder
Decidim.register_assets_path File.expand_path("app/packs", Rails.application.root)
---

=== Deployment

The deployment needs to be updated to manually run `npm install` before assets are precompiled.

In the case of Capistrano this can be done with a before hook:

[source,ruby]
----
namespace :deploy do
  desc "Decidim webpacker configuration"
  task :decidim_webpacker_install do
    on roles(:all) do
      within release_path do
        with rails_env: fetch(:rails_env) do
          execute "npm ci"
        end
      end
    end
  end

  before "deploy:assets:precompile", "deploy:decidim_webpacker_install"
end
----

Also, in the case of Capistrano it's interesting to add to the shared_paths the following folders:

* `tmp/webpacker-cache`
* `node_modules`
* `public/decidim-packs`

== Troubleshooting

If you have the following exception when executing `bundle exec rails decidim:upgrade` or `bundle exec rails decidim:webpacker:install`

[source,console]
----
npm ERR! code ERESOLVE
npm ERR! ERESOLVE unable to resolve dependency tree
npm ERR!
----

Then you need to check again that you're using the correct Node.js and NPM versions.

In some case it might be that some packages are not well resolved when installing NPM modules. If you get messages like:

[source,console]
----
...
[webpack-cli] Error: Cannot find module '@rails/webpacker'
...
----

Try to add the package `@rails/webpacker` manually in your `package.json` file next to the `@decidim/webpacker` package:

[source,json]
----
...
    "@decidim/webpacker": "^0.25.2",
    "@rails/webpacker": "^6.0.0-rc.5",
...
----

Then execute `npm install`.

Commit message:

Improve app 0.25 upgrade instructions
I've found some additional details to change in order to properly deploy an app.

docs/modules/develop/pages/guide_migrate_webpacker_app.adoc, after:

= Migrate to Webpacker an instance app

In order to migrate an existing Decidim app to Webpacker, there are a few changes your need to run in your code.

NOTE: this recipe might not work for all the cases, it tries to cover the generic scenarios. If you find yourself with a complex scenario and want to improve this guide feel free to open a PR to complete the guide.

== About Webpacker

It's recommended to understand how Webpacker works. More information:

* https://github.com/rails/webpacker#usage[Webpacker README]
* https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/webpacker.html[Rails Webpacker guide]

== Requirements

Before starting the migration, please check you have the following dependencies installed:

- Node.js version 16.9.x (this version is mandatory)
- Npm version 7.21.x (it works with other versions, but this is the recommended)
- Decidim updated to at least v0.25.0.rc4

== Guide

=== Add Webpacker to the application

Follow these steps. If you want more information you can find it at the https://github.com/rails/webpacker#installation[Webpacker installation guide].

* Install it

[source,console]
----
bundle exec rails webpacker:install
----

* Install Decidim webpacker custom code

[source,console]
----
bundle exec rails decidim:webpacker:install
----

This task do a few steps to allow the Rails instance to have a webpacker instance sharing the code between itself and Decidim gem.

This task is automatically performed every time decidim is updated, to get the latest Webpack configuration. This happens when you run the `decidim:upgrade` task.

=== Copy Decidim custom CSS and Javascript

`webpacker:install` task should have created to you the following dirs structure:

[source,console]
----
app/packs:
  ├── entrypoints
  └── src
  └── stylesheets
  └── images
----

If it's not the case you must create it. Then, copy Decidim customizable assets

* Copy the file https://github.com/decidim/decidim/blob/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.js[decidim_application.js] to `app/packs/src/decidim/decidim_application.js`
* Copy the file https://github.com/decidim/decidim/blob/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.scss[decidim_application.scss] to `app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/decidim_application.scss`
* Copy the file https://github.com/decidim/decidim/blob/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/_decidim-settings.scss[_decidim-settings.scss] to `app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/_decidim-settings.scss`

These files are hooked into Decidim packs (specifically into decidim-core pack) and will be automatically included inside that pack when compiled.

You can download these files directly with these commands:

[source,console]
----
mkdir -p app/packs/src/decidim app/packs/stylesheets/decidim app/packs/images
touch app/packs/src/decidim/.keep app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/.keep app/packs/images/.keep
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/decidim/decidim/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.js -O app/packs/src/decidim/decidim_application.js
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/decidim/decidim/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/decidim_application.scss -O app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/decidim_application.scss
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/decidim/decidim/develop/decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_templates/_decidim-settings.scss -O app/packs/stylesheets/decidim/_decidim-settings.scss
----

=== Migrate images

Copy the existing images from `app/assets/images` to `app/packs/images`. Images will be available at `/media/images/image.png`

[source,console]
----
cp -rp app/assets/images/* app/packs/images/
----

For instance, add the image "app/packs/images/test.png" in a view using the helper:

[source,erb]
----
<%= image_pack_tag "media/images/test.png" %>
----

Note that, by default, all images are flattened in a single directory (any subdirectory structure is lost when requiring an image using the `image_pack_tag`).
So, if you have a file in a subdirectory such as `app/packs/images/subfolder/test.png`, you still need to call for the image using `image_pack_tag "media/images/test.png"`

=== Migrate stylesheets

Existing stylesheets should be moved from `app/assets/stylesheets` to `app/packs/stylesheets` and imported with `@import` into `decidim_application.scss`. Take into account that you might need to adjust a bit the paths of the `@import` to adjust them to the new locations.

If that CSS file is replacing a Decidim file, there's no need to add it to `decidim_application.scss`.

If any of the CSS is re-defining CSS vars add them to `_decidim-settings.scss`.

=== Migrate javascripts

Existing javascripts should be moved from `app/assets/javascsripts` to `app/packs/src` and imported with `import` into `decidim_application.js`. Take into account that you might need to adjust a bit the paths of the `import` to adjust them to the new locations.

If that JS file is replacing a Decidim file, there's no need to add it to `decidim_application.js`

=== Update Rails helpers

`javascript_include_tag` and `stylesheet_link_tag` have been replaced by `javascript_pack_tag` and `stylesheet_pack_tag`. This only needs to be done if you're modifying the `application.html` file or partial in your layout.

For images, if they are in `app/packs/images` you need to replace `ìmage_tag` with `image_pack_tag`.

=== Migrate vendorized files and gems

Sometimes assets are included in `vendor/assets/` folder or imported from gems. For each specific one you should check:

1. if the asset is a javascript that is available as npm package the recommendation is to add it to package.json with `npm install`. If it's not available you might want to copy it to `app/packs/src` and import it.
2. if the asset is a stylesheet it should be copied to `app/packs/stylesheets` and imported with `@import...` from `_decidim-settings.scss`. Alternatively you can use the optional asset includes as described below to include these in the Decidim main SCSS files.

=== Optional asset includes

Decidim Webpacker provides a new configuration convention that allows you to add extra configurations for webpacker using a configuration file named `config/assets.rb`. Within this file, you have the following API methods available:

[source,ruby]
----
# frozen_string_literal: true
# This file is located at `config/assets.rb` of your module.

# Define the base path of your module. Please note that `Rails.root` may not be
# used because we are not inside the Rails environment when this file is loaded.
base_path = File.expand_path("..", __dir__)

# If you want to import some extra SCSS files in the Decidim main SCSS file
# without adding any extra stylesheet inclusion tags, you can use the following
# method to register the stylesheet import for the main application. This would
# include an SCSS file at `app/packs/stylesheets/your_app_extensions.scss` into
# the Decidim's main SCSS file.
Decidim::Webpacker.register_stylesheet_import("stylesheets/your_app_extensions")

# If you want to do the same but include the SCSS file for the admin panel's
# main SCSS file, you can use the following method.
Decidim::Webpacker.register_stylesheet_import("stylesheets/your_app_admin_extensions", group: :admin)
----

=== Remove Sprockets references

The completely remove Sprockets references from your application:

* Review your Gemfile and remove any reference to `sprockets` and `sassc-rails`
* Remove `config/initializers/assets.rb`
* Remove `app/assets` folder
* In `config/application.rb` replace:

[source,ruby]
----
require 'rails/all'
----

with:

[source,ruby]
----
require "decidim/rails"
# Add the frameworks used by your app that are not loaded by Decidim.
# require "action_cable/engine"
# require "action_mailbox/engine"
# require "action_text/engine"
----

* In `config/environments/*.rb` remove any line containing `config.assets.*` (i.e `config.assets.debug = true`)

=== Help Decidim to know the application's assets folder

To prevent Zeitwerk issues trying to autoload the non-ruby application folders, modify the `config/initializers/decidim.rb` file to include the following:

[source,ruby]
---
# Inform Decidim about the assets folder
Decidim.register_assets_path File.expand_path("app/packs", Rails.application.root)
---

=== Deployment

The deployment needs to be updated to manually run `npm install` before assets are precompiled.

In the case of Capistrano this can be done with a before hook (can be added at the end of your `config/deploy.rb` file):

[source,ruby]
----
namespace :deploy do
  desc "Decidim webpacker configuration"
  task :decidim_webpacker_install do
    on roles(:all) do
      execute "cd #{release_path}; npm ci"
    end
  end

  before "deploy:assets:precompile", "deploy:decidim_webpacker_install"
end
----

Also, in the case of Capistrano it's interesting to add to the shared_paths the following folders:

* `tmp/webpacker-cache`
* `node_modules`
* `public/decidim-packs`

== Troubleshooting

If you have the following exception when executing `bundle exec rails decidim:upgrade` or `bundle exec rails decidim:webpacker:install`

[source,console]
----
npm ERR! code ERESOLVE
npm ERR! ERESOLVE unable to resolve dependency tree
npm ERR!
----

Then you need to check again that you're using the correct Node.js and NPM versions.

In some case it might be that some packages are not well resolved when installing NPM modules. If you get messages like:

[source,console]
----
...
[webpack-cli] Error: Cannot find module '@rails/webpacker'
...
----

These might be due some kind of corruption in your `package-json.lock` file, you can try either to remove this file and recreate it with `npm install` or to add the package `@rails/webpacker` manually in your `package.json` file next to the `@decidim/webpacker` package:

[source,json]
----
...
    "@decidim/webpacker": "^0.25.2",
    "@rails/webpacker": "^6.0.0-rc.5",
...
----

Then execute `npm install`.
