docs/modules/develop/pages/machine_translations.adoc, before:

= Using machine translations

For multilingual organizations, Decidim includes a way to integrate with a machine translation service. The aim of this integration is to provide machine translations for any user-generated content.

== Flow description

Every time a user creates or updates a translatable resource (that is, an instance of a resource that implements the `Decidim::TranslatableResource` concern), this workflow is triggered:

* A background job starts for the resource. This background job lists the fields that have been changed, and checks if any of the fields is considered translatable.
* For each translatable field that is changed, it lists the locales that need to be translated.
* For each combination field/locale a new job is fired.
* This job calls the machine translation service, which will handle how to translate that given text.

This workflow will only start if the machine translation service is configured in the installation, and the organization has the service enabled.

== Create your own machine translation service

You can use the `Decidim::Dev::DummyTranslator` service as a base. Any new translator service will need to implement the same API as this class.
In order to test the `Decidim::Dev::DummyTranslator` you will need to add at the top of `config/initializers/decidim.rb` the following line:
`require "decidim/dev/dummy_translator"`

== Integrating with async services

Some translation services are async, which means that some extra work is needed. This is the main overview:

* The Translation service will only send the translation request. It should have a way to send what resource, field and target locale are related to that translation.
* You will need to create a custom controller in your application to receive the callback from the translation service when the translation is finished
* From that new endpoint, find a way to find the related resource, field and target locale. Then start a `Decidim::MachineTranslationSaveJob` with that data. This job will handle how to save the data in the DB.

== Enabling the integration, installation-wise

This is an option in the Decidim initializer:

[source,ruby]
----
config.enable_machine_translations = true
config.machine_translation_service = "MyApp::MyOwnTranslationService"
config.machine_translation_delay = 0.seconds
----

The class will need to be implemented, or reuse one from the community. Check the docs on how to implement a machine translation service.

== Enabling the integration, organization-wise

Each organization will be able to enable / disable the machine translations if they want to. The administrators of the organization perform the action from `Settings` -> `Configuration` admin menu, where they can enable or disable the machine translation system, and also they can select the priority.

* Original text first means that the platform will always display the original content as it has been added by contributors
* Translated text first means that the platform will always display the translation first.

Commit message:

No longer generate the initializer files (#14832)
* Avoid generating the initializer

* Add new environment variables

* Remove ai_initializer reference

* Running linters

* Fix specs

* Fix env call

* Add env variable for AI

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update decidim-generators/lib/decidim/generators/app_generator.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Rename DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY to DECIDIM_SPAM_DETECTION_DELAY_IN_SECONDS

* Rename DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD to DECIDIM_MINIMUM_INACTIVITY_PERIOD_IN_DAYS

* Add documentation for DECIDIM_PAGE_BLOCKS

* Document DECIDIM_API_DISCLOSE_SYSTEM_VERSION

* Move DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION position

* Add Service pages

* Refactor the initializer references

* Patch the documentation

* Misc

* Simplify details in environment variables file

* Implement changes with regards to initializer references

* refactor the maps

* Update decidim-core/lib/decidim/core.rb

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/modules/services/pages/sms.adoc

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix the Redme for DECIDIM_ENABLE_MACHINE_TRANSLATION

* Fix decidim initiatives

* Adding content processors env variable

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrés Pereira de Lucena <andreslucena@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/develop/pages/machine_translations.adoc, after:

= Using machine translations

For multilingual organizations, Decidim includes a way to integrate with a machine translation service. The aim of this integration is to provide machine translations for any user-generated content.

== Flow description

Every time a user creates or updates a translatable resource (that is, an instance of a resource that implements the `Decidim::TranslatableResource` concern), this workflow is triggered:

* A background job starts for the resource. This background job lists the fields that have been changed, and checks if any of the fields is considered translatable.
* For each translatable field that is changed, it lists the locales that need to be translated.
* For each combination field/locale a new job is fired.
* This job calls the machine translation service, which will handle how to translate that given text.

This workflow will only start if the machine translation service is configured in the installation, and the organization has the service enabled.

== Create your own machine translation service

You can use the `Decidim::Dev::DummyTranslator` service as a base. Any new translator service will need to implement the same API as this class.
In order to test the `Decidim::Dev::DummyTranslator` you will need to set the `DECIDIM_MACHINE_TRANSLATION_SERVICE` environment variable.

[source,bash]
----
export DECIDIM_MACHINE_TRANSLATION_SERVICE="Decidim::Dev::DummyTranslator"
----

== Integrating with async services

Some translation services are async, which means that some extra work is needed. This is the main overview:

* The Translation service will only send the translation request. It should have a way to send what resource, field and target locale are related to that translation.
* You will need to create a custom controller in your application to receive the callback from the translation service when the translation is finished
* From that new endpoint, find a way to find the related resource, field and target locale. Then start a `Decidim::MachineTranslationSaveJob` with that data. This job will handle how to save the data in the DB.

== Enabling the integration, installation-wise

This is an option in the Decidim initializer:

[source,ruby]
----
config.enable_machine_translations = true
config.machine_translation_service = "MyApp::MyOwnTranslationService"
config.machine_translation_delay = 0.seconds
----

The class will need to be implemented, or reuse one from the community. Check the docs on how to implement a machine translation service.

== Enabling the integration, organization-wise

Each organization will be able to enable / disable the machine translations if they want to. The administrators of the organization perform the action from `Settings` -> `Configuration` admin menu, where they can enable or disable the machine translation system, and also they can select the priority.

* Original text first means that the platform will always display the original content as it has been added by contributors
* Translated text first means that the platform will always display the translation first.
