docs/modules/develop/pages/permissions.adoc, before:

= Permissions

Since Decidim has multiple roles, we needed a permissions system to discover what actions can a user perform, given their roles. The basis of the current permissions system were added on https://github.com/decidim/decidim/pull/3029[#3029], so be sure to check that PR (and the related ones) to read the discussion and the motivations behind the change.

== Overview

When checking for permission to perform an action, we check this chain:

. The component permissions
. The participatory space permissions
. The core permissions

This way we are going from more specific to more general.

== Explanation

We wrap the permission and its context in a `PermissionsAction` object. It also holds the state of the permission (whether it has been allowed or not).

Each component and space must define a `Permissions` class, inheriting from `Decidim::DefaultPermissions`. The `Permissions` class must define a `permissions` instance method. this class will receive the permission action, and the `permissions` method must return the permission action. The `Permissions` class can set the action as allowed or disallowed.

There is a small limitation in the permission action state machine: once it has been disallowed it cannot be reallowed. This is to avoid mischievous modules modifying permissions.

Permission actions have a scope. It is usually either `:public` or `:admin`, and the `Permissions` class usually handles the `:public` scope, while it delegates the `:admin` one to another specialized class.

== Add a new Action

=== Proposals example

We are going to reproduce the steps to add an action (endorse) for a proposal step by step.

==== Configuring a new 'endorse' action

. Edit decidim-proposals/lib/decidim/proposals/component.rb
. Add the new 'endorse' action into the `component.actions` array and save the file:

[source,ruby]
----
component.actions = %w(endorse vote create)
----

. Translate the action for the corresponding key: `en.decidim.components.proposals.actions.endorse = Endorse`
. Edit `app/permissions/decidim/proposals/permissions.rb` and add the corresponding permission, using `authorized?` method to run the `authorization handler` logic.
. In the endorse proposals controller, enforce that the user has permissions to perform the `endorse` action before actually doing it, using the `enforce_permission_to` method:

[source,ruby]
----
enforce_permission_to :endorse, :proposal, proposal: proposal
----

. In the proposals templates, change regular links and buttons to endorse a proposal with calls to `action_authorized_link_to` and `action_authorized_button_to` helpers.
. Restart the server to pick up the changes.

==== Using the new 'endorse' action

. Now an admin user should be able to go to a participatory space with a `proposals` component panel and click on its `Permissions` link (the icon with a key). There, an `authorization handler` can be set for the `endorse` action.
. Go to a Proposal detail in the front-end
. Try to endorse the current proposal
 ** If the user has not granted the selected permission, the 'endorse' button should block the action and allow the user to grant the permission with the selected `authorization handler` logic.
 ** If the logger user has already granted the selected permission, the user should be able to perform the endorsement.

==== Allow to configure the related permissions at resource level

Permissions settings could also be set for an specific resources apart from the full component. Actions should also be related to the resource.

. Edit decidim-proposals/lib/decidim/proposals/component.rb
. Add the 'endorse' action into the `resource.actions` array for the `proposal` resource definition and save the file:

[source,ruby]
----
resource.actions = %w(endorse vote)
----

. Only if this is the first resource action added, edit the proposals admin templates and use the `resource_permissions_link` helper to link the resource permissions page from each resource in the listing.

[source,erb]
----
<%= resource_permissions_link(proposal) %>
----

. In the proposals permission class, pass an extra `resource` named parameter to the calls to the `authorized?` method.

[source,ruby]
----
authorized?(:endorse, resource: proposal)
----

. In the proposals templates, also add the extra `resource` parameter to the `action_authorized_link_to` and `action_authorized_button_to` helpers.
. Restart the server to pick up the changes.

==== Using permissions at resource level

. Now an admin user should be able to go to a participatory space with a `proposals` component panel and click on its `Permissions` link (the icon with a key). There, an `authorization handler` can be set for the `endorse` action.

Commit message:

changed files, terms, strings and syntax changed from endorse to like

docs/modules/develop/pages/permissions.adoc, after:

= Permissions

Since Decidim has multiple roles, we needed a permissions system to discover what actions can a user perform, given their roles. The basis of the current permissions system were added on https://github.com/decidim/decidim/pull/3029[#3029], so be sure to check that PR (and the related ones) to read the discussion and the motivations behind the change.

== Overview

When checking for permission to perform an action, we check this chain:

. The component permissions
. The participatory space permissions
. The core permissions

This way we are going from more specific to more general.

== Explanation

We wrap the permission and its context in a `PermissionsAction` object. It also holds the state of the permission (whether it has been allowed or not).

Each component and space must define a `Permissions` class, inheriting from `Decidim::DefaultPermissions`. The `Permissions` class must define a `permissions` instance method. this class will receive the permission action, and the `permissions` method must return the permission action. The `Permissions` class can set the action as allowed or disallowed.

There is a small limitation in the permission action state machine: once it has been disallowed it cannot be reallowed. This is to avoid mischievous modules modifying permissions.

Permission actions have a scope. It is usually either `:public` or `:admin`, and the `Permissions` class usually handles the `:public` scope, while it delegates the `:admin` one to another specialized class.

== Add a new Action

=== Proposals example

We are going to reproduce the steps to add an action (like) for a proposal step by step.

==== Configuring a new 'like' action

. Edit decidim-proposals/lib/decidim/proposals/component.rb
. Add the new 'like' action into the `component.actions` array and save the file:

[source,ruby]
----
component.actions = %w(like vote create)
----

. Translate the action for the corresponding key: `en.decidim.components.proposals.actions.like = Like`
. Edit `app/permissions/decidim/proposals/permissions.rb` and add the corresponding permission, using `authorized?` method to run the `authorization handler` logic.
. In the like proposals controller, enforce that the user has permissions to perform the `like` action before actually doing it, using the `enforce_permission_to` method:

[source,ruby]
----
enforce_permission_to :like, :proposal, proposal: proposal
----

. In the proposals templates, change regular links and buttons to like a proposal with calls to `action_authorized_link_to` and `action_authorized_button_to` helpers.
. Restart the server to pick up the changes.

==== Using the new 'like' action

. Now an admin user should be able to go to a participatory space with a `proposals` component panel and click on its `Permissions` link (the icon with a key). There, an `authorization handler` can be set for the `like` action.
. Go to a Proposal detail in the front-end
. Try to like the current proposal
 ** If the user has not granted the selected permission, the 'like' button should block the action and allow the user to grant the permission with the selected `authorization handler` logic.
 ** If the logger user has already granted the selected permission, the user should be able to perform the like.

==== Allow to configure the related permissions at resource level

Permissions settings could also be set for an specific resources apart from the full component. Actions should also be related to the resource.

. Edit decidim-proposals/lib/decidim/proposals/component.rb
. Add the 'like' action into the `resource.actions` array for the `proposal` resource definition and save the file:

[source,ruby]
----
resource.actions = %w(like vote)
----

. Only if this is the first resource action added, edit the proposals admin templates and use the `resource_permissions_link` helper to link the resource permissions page from each resource in the listing.

[source,erb]
----
<%= resource_permissions_link(proposal) %>
----

. In the proposals permission class, pass an extra `resource` named parameter to the calls to the `authorized?` method.

[source,ruby]
----
authorized?(:like, resource: proposal)
----

. In the proposals templates, also add the extra `resource` parameter to the `action_authorized_link_to` and `action_authorized_button_to` helpers.
. Restart the server to pick up the changes.

==== Using permissions at resource level

. Now an admin user should be able to go to a participatory space with a `proposals` component panel and click on its `Permissions` link (the icon with a key). There, an `authorization handler` can be set for the `like` action.
