docs/modules/install/pages/empty-database.adoc, before:

= Install with no seeds

You may want to setup your decidim with an empty database.
In this case, please follow the steps bellow:

. Follow steps 1 through 5 of previous section(xref:install:manual.adoc[Manual Installation] section).

. Run the migrations from the root of your project in the terminal.
[source,bash]
----
  bin/rails db:create db:migrate
----
[start=3]
. Now you need to create your admin user, in order to be able to login to the system. in the terminal type the following:
[source,bash]
----
  bundle exec rails s
----
[start=4]
. Once you entered the console, copy and paste the following:
[source,bash]
----
  $ bin/rails decidim_system:create_admin
----

Follow the CLI to create your admin user. For the sake of conformity with the rest of documentation, you may create a user with email `user@example.org` and password `decidim123456`.

Now, you will be able to login to the system panel with the provided credentials.

== Extra notes

The objective of decidim is to define an organizational and representation system that can be transformed into an autonomous entity or association from which the whole community participate. Therefore, creating the organizational account is centric part of the process.

Commit message:

Edit comments on documentation
- Add link to the system panel documentation

docs/modules/install/pages/empty-database.adoc, after:

= Install with no seeds

You may want to setup your decidim with an empty database.
In this case, please follow the steps bellow:

. Follow steps 1 through 5 of previous section(xref:install:manual.adoc[Manual Installation] section).

. Run the migrations from the root of your project in the terminal.
[source,bash]
----
  bin/rails db:create db:migrate
----
[start=3]
. Now you need to create your admin user, in order to be able to login to the system. in the terminal type the following:
[source,bash]
----
  bundle exec rails s
----
[start=4]
. Once you entered the console, copy and paste the following:
[source,bash]
----
  $ bin/rails decidim_system:create_admin
----

Follow the CLI to create your admin user. For the sake of conformity with the rest of documentation, you may create a user with email `user@example.org` and password `decidim123456`.

Now, you will be able to login to the system panel with the provided credentials.

== Extra notes

The objective of decidim is to define an organizational and representation system capable of transforming into an autonomous entity or association from which the whole community participate. Therefore, creating the organizational account is centric part of the process (refer to xref:admin:system.adoc[System panel] for more information).
