docs/modules/install/pages/noseed.adoc, before:

= Install with no seed

Sometimes, you may need to install your instance without no seed, so as to focus mainly on the parts you want, or deploy your application from the scratch.
Please follow the following steps:

. Follow the steps 1 through 5 of previous section(xref:install:manual.adoc[Manual Installation] section).

. Since you don't need to add the seeds, you are good to go with only running the migrations. run the migrations from the root of your project in the terminal

[source,bash]
----
bin/rails db:create db:migrate
----

[start=3]
3. Now you need to create your admin user, in order to be able to login to the system. in the terminal type the following:

[source,bash]
----
bundle exec rails s
----

[start=4]
4. Once you entered the console, copy and paste the following:

[source,bash]
----
  admin = Decidim::User.find_or_initialize_by(email: "admin@example.org")

  admin.update!(
    name: Faker::Name.name,
    nickname: Faker::Twitter.unique.screen_name,
    password: "decidim123456",
    password_confirmation: "decidim123456",
    organization: organization,
    confirmed_at: Time.current,
    locale: I18n.default_locale,
    admin: true,
    tos_agreement: true,
    personal_url: Faker::Internet.url,
    about: Faker::Lorem.paragraph(sentence_count: 2),
    accepted_tos_version: organization.tos_version,
    admin_terms_accepted_at: Time.current
  )
----

Now, you will be able to login to the system with the provided credentials((email: "admin@example.org" and password: "decidim123456").

Commit message:

Add documentation for no-seed installation

docs/modules/install/pages/noseed.adoc, after:

= Install with no seed

You may want to setup your decidim with no seeds.
In this case, please follow the steps bellow:

. Follow steps 1 through 5 of previous section(xref:install:manual.adoc[Manual Installation] section).

. Since you don't need to add the seeds, you are good to go with only running the migrations. run the migrations from the root of your project in the terminal

[source,bash]
----
bin/rails db:create db:migrate
----

[start=3]
3. Now you need to create your admin user, in order to be able to login to the system. in the terminal type the following:

[source,bash]
----
bundle exec rails s
----

[start=4]
4. Once you entered the console, copy and paste the following:

[source,bash]
----
  admin = Decidim::User.find_or_initialize_by(email: "admin@example.org")

  admin.update!(
    name: Faker::Name.name,
    nickname: Faker::Twitter.unique.screen_name,
    password: "decidim123456",
    password_confirmation: "decidim123456",
    organization: organization,
    confirmed_at: Time.current,
    locale: I18n.default_locale,
    admin: true,
    tos_agreement: true,
    personal_url: Faker::Internet.url,
    about: Faker::Lorem.paragraph(sentence_count: 2),
    accepted_tos_version: organization.tos_version,
    admin_terms_accepted_at: Time.current
  )
----

Now, you will be able to login to the system with the provided credentials((email: "admin@example.org" and password: "decidim123456").
